Castle Mountaineering Club. Reports of 1987 meets.

Skiing. 18 January. This was supposed to have been a caving meet
but "Arctic weather had hit Britain!", there was lots of snow,
the roads to the caves weren't very nice, and anyway lots of
members were keen to get their skis out. A party of a dozen or
so, mostly on cross-country skis but a couple on Alpine skis
(hard work if you forget your skins, eh Marian?) set out from
Ringinglow over Houndkirk for lunch at Fox House. The circuit was
completed via Burbage Bridge. Manky weather but nice skiing
especially up the Green Drive. For those who skied to and from
home to avoid the parking chaos at Ringinglow it was a good day
out.

Patterdale. 24-25 January. The organiser Mike Anderson tells me
that approximately 55 people, including several children,
attended this meet, which must be something of a record. Saturday
was mild, dry, windless and overcast. There was virtually no snow
on the fells, which disappointed those who had hoped to go skiing
or gully climbing. What a contrast from the previous weekend in
Sheffield! Most people were up on the Helvellyn range walking,
scrambling, and trying to find some snow to climb. A convivial
evening was spent in the White Lion, which was virtually taken
over by Castle members. Sunday was a little colder and breezier
but still dry. "Commander" Barnard led a mass assault on Pinnacle
Ridge, St Sunday Crag, whilst other parties were active on the
High Street side of the dale. The weekend was marred by a fatal
accident in which a climber fell 500ft down the Red Tarn face of
Helvellyn. Club member Mark Shearer and party happened to be on
the scene and administered first aid and mouth to mouth
resuscitation, but unfortunately to no avail.

Orienteering walk. 1 February. It was a beautiful cold clear
crisp frosty morning, and several members turned up at Curbar gap
to be sent off again by Marian armed with sheets containing grid
references, compass bearings and cryptic clues concocted by
Marian. Some people hadn't realised it was a walk, and were
observed to be running. The event ended at The Grouse for lunch,
and after the scores had been checked, amid a lot of muttering
about whether there were 4 or 5 trees in a certain enclosure,
Dave Pendlebury and Linda McLeish were declared the winners.

Snake/Kinder walk. 8 February. It was raining and this might have
had something to do with the fact that only six turned out for
this meet, two of whom, Claire and Freda, were newcomers to the
club. We set off up the Snake Path. The river Ashop was in spate,
and even some of the tributary streams were quite interesting to
cross. Just over the top of the pass an old snow field lingered,
and two of the party fell thigh deep into holes in this. Down to
Kinder Reservoir where a unanimous decision was made to proceed
via the Sportsman in Hayfield. Here beers, coffees, and in Jack's
case butties were consumed (the rest of us had already eaten our
lunch). In the afternoon the weather cleared up quite nicely for
a walk up onto Kinder, along to the Downfall, and then a boggy
crossing of the plateau to Fairbrook Naze and final descent to
the Snake Inn.

Moonlight walk. 13 February. Cold, calm, and slightly cloudy but ample
moonlight for walking without a torch. Fifteen set out from
Castleton. Up to the top of Winnats Pass via the traversing path which
leaves the road at Treak Cliff Cavern; good for getting warmed up,
especially if you miss the start of the path and go straight up steep
grass to regain it. Then to the top of Mam Tor; how rare to have it to
oneself. Freezing at this level; crunchy turf, frozen mud; moonlit
views to Hope and Edale valleys. We continued along the ridge to Back
Tor and Lose Hill where hip flasks and a bottle of wine were produced
from rucksacks and handed round. Thus fortified we descended via Lose
Hill farm and Lose Hill Hall to end the evening at the Cheshire
Cheese.

Glencoe. 21-22 February. Report by Ian Barton. "Sixteen members
of the club turned out for the annual Lagangarbh meet this year.
In keeping with tradition the organiser did not stay in the hut
but in a cottage nearer the Onich Hotel.
  On arriving at the Clachaig on Saturday night I had just taken
the first sip of my pint when I was cornered by the President who
demanded to know where the hut key was. Cowering at the bar I
denied knowledge of the matter but the president had been out on
the hill all day and wanted his tea. Eventually I made my escape
to the Onich leaving several hungry club members waiting for the
key. It appears that a certain club member had taken the key
climbing on the Ben and it duly reappeared later having completed
its route (Marian you owe me a pint).
   The good weather continued through Sunday and most of the
following week with routes such as Twisting Gully, Zero and
Forked Gully being climbed. I managed a record three walks up to
the Ben and did not get benighted once. Fortunately it started to
rain on Thursday which saved me from further exertion and the
rest of the week was spent in the pub."

Here is another report of the same meet by John Barnard. Again
the saga of the hut key features prominently. "There was a good
turnout, in fairly reasonable conditions, for the annual
Lagangarbh meet, and several routes were done in Coire nan
Lochan, the Lost Valley and on Ben Nevis. Unfortunately, a
certain ex-president (who shall remain nameless) set off for an
ascent of Tower Ridge with the hut key in her pocket. As a
result, the rest of us were forced to spend the evening in the
Clachaig - my apologies to all those others I falsely accused of
having made off with the key!"

Edale Skyline. 1 March. The meet leader couldn't make it; the
weather was dismal, but nine of us ventured forth from Mam Nick
car park into the rain and mist. The weather didn't really
improve much during the day. Lose Hill and Win Hill were soon
behind us. Descending from the latter, we passed a horse riding
party and a little later heard galloping hooves behind and had to
jump quickly out of the way. One of the less well known hazards
of mountaineering. And so to Kinder, as boggy as I've ever seen
it following several days of rain. Lunch in the shelter of
Jagger's Clough was a wet affair. After lunch the squelch
continued - no views but route finding wasn't really a problem.
However we were reminded frequently of a previous Castle walk on
Kinder in which the party had split up in the mist and had ended
in three different places, all wrong. The prospect of a couple of
pints and a curry at the Himalaya later spurred us on over Brown
Knoll and Rushup Edge back to the cars.

Derwent/Strines. 8 March. This was supposed to be a meet in the Hebden
Bridge area, but was changed to a local venue following a sudden snow
fall. A party of three walkers and five skiers set off from Ladybower
and made their way up on to Derwent Edge. It was cold on top but the
skiing was good. Up to Back Tor and then a good run down to Strines
for a pleasant lunch. Then back via Moscar. A really nice afternoon,
quite warm with some sunshine, though this was making the snow
disappear fast as we approached Ladybower.

"It's a Rockout." 15 March. Report by Ian Barton. This now
traditional meet was well attended despite the somewhat damp
conditions. The meet began at Lawrencefield which still had the
odd large cornice overhanging the pool wall. A couple of routes
were done around Three Tree Climb since this was the only area
that was dry. Several hardened walkers set off on foot for the
Grouse but were easily beaten to the pub by the cragrats who
drove there. After suitable liquid refreshment we all staggered
down to Froggatt in improving weather (this may have been the
effect of the beer) and the afternoon was spent climbing the
classics.

Dentdale. 21-22 March. Report by Martin Whitaker and Dave
Crowther. We stayed in the bunkhouse at Whernside Manor, which
proved adequate for our needs, despite the roof leaking during
heavy rain! Hot showers and a drying room were available at the
Manor, but only Dave Crowther and Dave Pendlebury managed to use
them, being the only ones able to get away for the whole weekend.
They arrived in Dent on Friday night and, on leaving the pub,
were surprised to find that an inch of snow had fallen in the
space of two pints. This curtailed a visit to Kingsdale on
Saturday and instead a local cave (Nettle Pot) was explored. The
guidebook in this area being long out of date, we were fortunate
to obtain an original sketch of the cave by its discoverer, Ben
Lyon. It looked like the letter 'k'. After thrashing up a stream
to the entrance and crawling through mud embedded with bits of
surplus farm machinery we dropped into the cave proper and were
pleasantly surprised by the variety and the formations there.
Worth a visit.
Mike Doyle, Dubbo and Martin turned up on Saturday night, and
Steve France on Sunday morning after proving that you 	Ucan	u ski
in a Vauxhall Cavalier. We hired a good supply of ladders, etc.
from the Centre, and visited Tatham Wife Pot on Sunday. It was a
bit wet, but not crowded. Martin was accused of all sorts of
bestiality for taking Dubbo down all these ladders, and all the
water running down the pitches was ALL HIS FAULT!! Despite this,
and a nice tight little duck, we had an enjoyable time, and even
managed to use Steve as a human stopper when returning up the
last (or first depending on which way you're facing) pitch.
Afterwards we had time for a drink at the Junction at Otley
before being finished off by a curry at the Corner Cafe.

Wildcat. 12 April. Report by Martin Whitaker. The first really
decent Sunday of the year for climbing, and I had to get involved
in an epic with John and Gordon on the first climb! I'll say no
more! Quite a good turn-out, 9 club members in all, knocking off
quite a number of VS and HVS routes, and culminating in a curry
at the Kashmir afterwards - and the feeling that spring was here
at last, and summer could be on the way.

SOUTH DEVON. Easter 1987. 18-20 April. A dozen or so turned up
for what must have been the best Easter club meet, weatherwise,
for several years: warm and sunny, especially if you chose rock
out of the breeze. Limestone climbing took place at Chudleigh,
Daddyhole, Anstey's Cove, and Berry Head. Other activities were
coastal path walking, walking on Dartmoor, sunbathing, and real
ale drinking.

Capel Curig. 2-4 May. May Day bank holiday. An interlude of
wintry, windy weather in the middle of a fine warm spell. A good
turnout though; even the meet leader was reputed to be in the
area but was not spotted. The weekend began with wind, hail,
sleet, snow etc on Friday night. On Saturday the mountaineers
ascended Tryfan via a scramble on the east face, and were
subjected to further wind, hail, etc., making the traditional
leap between "Adam" and "Eve" on the summit unappealing. A
retreat was beaten to the Idwal tea bar. Predictably the climbers
went to Tremadoc. Sunday was a better day, with good visibility
but still rather cold and windy. A scrambling party did the
northeast ridge of Y Garn and continued over the Glyders; the
climbers repaired to Gogarth where Dream of White Horses and
other desperates were done. Monday slightly better again, but not
much. Ridge walking on the Carnedds and more climbing at Gogarth.

SACC Fell Race. 7 May. There were good conditions and many
runners for the 11th annual race. The Dave Edwards Memorial
Trophy for the first club runner home went to Peter Haig of the
Peak, who was also first overall with a time of 31 minutes.
Second was Tim Miller of the Castle. The Ladies' Trophy and
Veterans' Trophy were again won respectively by Mary Sant of the
Parnassus and Barry Needle of the Peak. The Castle easily won the
Team prize for the 6th successive year. The evening continued
enjoyably in the Scotsman's Pack where the results were
announced. Many thanks to Pat and Mary Peace for once again doing
a superb job in organising the event.

ARRAN. Spring Bank Holiday meet: 23-25 May. Perfect conditions:
sunny warm and dry rock. About 20 came and enjoyed the first club
meet to Arran for 6 years. We camped in Glen Rosa for a change; a
pleasant site by the river, and no midges. A slight hiccup
occurred when the meet leader missed the ferry from Ardrossan and
arrived 24 hours late. A further incident involving members of a
youth group resulted in the accidental flattening of the Club's
Vango tent (the culprits did pay for the damage and lent PJ a
replacement). Activities were many and various. Classic rock
routes like Souwester Slabs, South Ridge Direct of Rosa Pinnacle
and Labyrinth were done. Martin and Claire did Brachistochrone on
Beinn Tarsuinn "the hardest route in the guidebook". One day the
climbers got fed up with walking up and down Glen Rosa with sacks
full of climbing gear, and took Claire's taxi service to a lower
level crag near Lochranza; the rock turned out to be not so good
there. The two Daves did the traverse of all the main Arran
ridges in a long taxing day. Less ambitiously, Goat Fell was
ascended by several parties including the Smiths en famille.
Several cycling sorties were made to sample the delightful
scenery of the island in pretty much ideal conditions; one of
these trips was notable for the President having a front tyre
blowout and needing rescuing by the Secretary. In the evenings a
certain amount of real ale etc was consumed at the Ormidale. All
in all a most successful meet.

Bleaklow walk. 7 June. The dismal weather, possibly compounded by Ian
Barton's party the night before, resulted in a low turnout on this
meet. Nevertheless 3 stalwarts - Charles, Alan and Andy caught the
Manchester airport bus to Tintwistle and from there set off up Ogden
Clough onto Bleaklow. It rained or drizzled virtually all day and so
we never had our waterproofs off, and there was a fresh wind but at
least we had it on our backs (except when Charles turned round whilst
climbing over a stile and had to go chasing after his flat cap). Up on
the plateau the mist was down and out came the compass; we found both
Wain Stones and Bleaklow Stones as planned. It was very squelchy in
the groughs. Crossing Featherbed Moss, we met Gordon and Linda coming
the other way; they had arrived at Pond Street just 5 minutes after
the bus left. A little later on Outer Edge who should we meet but Jack
Ashcroft who had run the Sheffield half marathon in the morning but
obviously this hadn't tired him out much. On our last top before
descending to the car, Pike Lowe, Jack fished in his rucksack and
produced a bottle of Chateauneuf du Pape, the contents of which
disappeared very rapidly indeed. We finished somewhat wet and weary
after twenty or so miles of bogtrotting, but nothing that a hot bath,
a pint or three of real ale, and a good curry couldn't put right.

Buttermere. 4-5 July. Two days of glorious hot sunny weather
found a couple of dozen members based at Gatesgarth. The
weekend's mountaineering achievements included climbing on
Buckstone How, Shepherd's Crag, Troutdale Pinnacle, and Castle
Rock of Triermain, scrambling up Lorton Gully on Grasmoor, ridge
walking on the High Stile and Dale Head sides of the valley,
ticking off Wainwrights, and a family ascent of Haystacks. Other
activities included eating ice cream, sunbathing, drinking beer
in The Fish, being amused by the Dunk duo who eventually managed
to make contact, and being stuck in traffic jams on the M6.

Peakland Ten Trig Points walk. 19 July. Here is Jack Ashcroft's report
on the day (he also has a remarkable set of photographs showing each
of the ten trigs complete with soggy walkers, a few yards of boggy
peat, and lots of rain and mist). Hathersage car park 5.02am; Trig No
1 (Stanage south) 5.48am; Trig No 2 (High Neb) 6.32am; Trig No 3 (Back
Tor) 8.20am; Trig No 4 (Margery Hill) 9.59am; Trig No 5 (Outer Edge)
10.24am; Birchin Hat/ Alport Castles 12.15 - 12.30pm; Snake Inn 2.25 -
2.30pm; Trig No 6 (Sandy Heys) 4.00pm; Trig No 7 (Kinder Low) 4.45pm;
Trig No 8 (Brown Knoll) 5.21pm; Trig No 9 (Ringing Roger) 7.13pm; Trig
No 10 (Win Hill) 8.49pm; Bamford (Marquis of Granby) 9.45pm. 16.45 hrs
walking time.  Weather atrocious - low cloud and rain much of the
day. One hours sunshine in West End. That seven of us, the President,
the Secretary, the Meet Leader, a Veteran, and two lady prospective
members plus a lady rescue team car driver, turned out in such
miserable weather was a success in itself. In that the distance of
about 41 miles was covered and the 10 trig points traversed was a
double success. It was not without much wet, wind and weariness in
Peakland bog traps that the 16/17 hour day was concluded with pork
rolls and stuffing in the Marquis of Granby - a fine finish to a day
by a self contained party. Thank you Mr President for arranging cars
up the valley from Bamford to the Snake Inn and the lady car rescue
driver. Good job the meet leader didn't rely on the 9.31 pm train to
transport him the last mile or so from Bamford to Hathersage. As he
walked down from Thornhill the train was observed to tear through
Bamford station at 80 mph. A puny hand wave might just about have
stopped the train at Hatherage!  There were two navigational errors en
route. We missed Oyster Clough and instead came down Birchen Clough to
the Snake Inn (30min behind schedule and after closing time. Serious
stuff). We then fumbled a bit in the mist finding trig point number
6. (No excuse. Just bad route planning. Everyone knows it's up to
Fairbrook Naze, one mile along the Edge and turn south a bit).  So
there you have what could have been a scenic variation on the Derwent
Watershed, if we had been able to see the views. Finally maybe
substitution of the Trig Point on West End Moor above the Upper Alport
Dale for Brown Knoll would be a better circuit, avoiding back tracking
from Brown Knoll. Hell fire its got to be done again! The 1987
participants were Andy Smith, John Barnard, Alan Fletcher, Rosie,
Jenny, Kathy, and me.

Ribblesdale family meet. 13-14 June. Report by John Starey.
Saturday morning arrived dry warm and sunny, contrary to the
weather forecast, which maybe explains the low turnout for the
meet. Anyway the Starey's managed a walk over Pen-y-Ghent,
visiting Hull Pot on our way down to the cafe for tea and Mars
bars, arriving back at the site to find Dubbo had arrived
complete with five kids and a puncture. Puncture fixed and
weather still good on Sunday, we all went over to Attermire Scar
for the day, where Dubbo, myself and others hauled the children
up this limestone V Diff, which took about 2-1/2 - 3 hours. I
think they all enjoyed themselves.

Pembroke. 29-31 August. Report by Martin Whitaker. In contrast to
many meets this summer, the weather on the Pembroke meet was
excellent. Even more to the point, it was at its best on the
Sunday and Monday, the days that the meet leader and the chief
wimp were able to attend. For a change, the meet was centered in
North Pembroke instead of the Bosherston area, on the granitic
cliffs of the St. Davis's Head area, and the sandstones around
Porthclais. The climbing was excellent and varied, with easy
access to most of the cliffs, and a variety of grades to choose
from. We camped at Whitesands Bay, and the sun shone. In all, 9
club members attended the meet - not bad for an August Bank
Holiday.

Rhinogs. 19-20 September. Report by Dave Crowther. Six of us
eventually camped in the glow of Trawsfynedd power station. Both
of the Trawsfynedd pubs were investigated, along with another
near the foot of the Moelwyns (yes, it poured down just as we got
to the base of the crags). Sunday saw a split, with three finding
a break in the clag on Tryfan and the other three walking the
Rhinogs (various bogs necessitated a change of clothing on return
to the car - roll on the caving season!!)

Crag Cleanup Day. 26 September. Report by John Barnard. A large
number of enthusiastic volunteers turned out to clean up
Millstone Edge, as part of BMC's contribution to the
International Day of Clean Mountains. After a couple of hours,
more bags of rubbish had been collected than would fit in the
back of the President's car, and passing climbers were heard to
comment that they had never seen the place looking so clean. An
article on the cleanup will appear in "High" within the next few
months, and it is hoped that it will be illustrated by some of
the photos which Frank Mellor took at Millstone. After the
cleanup, several members stayed on to do some climbing, and for
all I know, one is still half-way up the Great Slab.... A few
people had also been at Millstone the previous day, in order to
be filmed picking up litter by the BBC - an item appeared on
"Look North" that evening; we also got a write-up in the
Sheffield Star.

Dovedale. 4 October. Report by Linda McLeish. Dave and I drove
through rain, past Bakewell and into the fog, gave up about 3/4
of the way there and went back for Bakewell Puddings and a warm
fire!

Kinder. 18 October. Report by Dave Crowther. This was meant to be a
high level climbing meet, and indeed some hard routes might have been
accomplished with wind assistance (blowing up Nether Tor). However we
opted to walk (or rather stagger) round the horseshoe from Ringing
Roger to Mam Tor, and thence to various curry houses. Prize to Paul
Roe for the latest turn up (he arrived as we came down again to the
car park, six hours on!).

Lake District. 24-25 October. A good weekend weatherwise for the
time of year. 13 people and a dog camped at Braithwaite. On
Saturday the main activity was a round of Coledale taking in
Grisedale Pike and Causey Pike. On Sunday the walking party had a
windy day on Skiddaw, which was approached from the north. A
female splinter group headed for Shepherds Crag. The Smiths as
usual did their own family thing, with 3 year old Steven doing
his first two unaided 'Wainrights' (Barrow and Barf).

Froggatt. 1 November. Report by Nesta Hartley. Well attended by
Castle members, friends and dog enjoying a fine autumn day. Hard
to say who attended or who did what as the day was no longer
young when many arrived - people dispersed along the edge to do
their own thing. The meet leader was not amused when prior to her
'descent' she was asked by the retiring treasurer if she'd done
the route before. When the reply was "No" the response from the
ground was "I'll not tell you where the crucial hold is then, but
it looks like a good one for the camera". A good day was had by
all.

Birchens/Gardoms. 8 November. Report by Linda McLeish. Through
the fog and rain we battled from Birchens to Gardoms as I had
told a new member Gardoms by mistake! He had more sense, to stay
in bed. By 2pm it started to hail and the v.diffs were aborted -
we just missed out at the pub!

Photographic Competition. 14 November. Results. Action Class:
Frank Mellor (1st prize), Martin Whitaker (2nd), Dubbo (Alex)
Smith (3rd). Pictorial Class: Frank Mellor (1st prize), Martin
Whitaker (2nd), Frank Mellor (3rd). Club Interest: Dubbo The
Epworth cup for the best overall performance was won by Frank
Mellor. Well done, Frank! A most enjoyable evening was had by all
and we are grateful to Chris Craggs for doing the judging for us.
If you didn't get to the evening, the winning slides have as
usual been printed and are displayed on the walls of the
clubroom.

Crowden/ Black Hill. 22 November. Not too bad a day: only a few
showers and even some patches of blue sky. Nevertheless only 6 members
managed to drag themselves out of bed in time to start from Crowden at
half past nine. Up the Pennine Way to Laddow Rocks then a pathless
detour to the trig point on Featherbed Moss. Down to Chew Reservoir to
join the track down the valley (now tarmacked below the dam). After a
lunch break we continued up to Greenfield Reservoir and on past the
end of the track up Holme Clough, which was in spate due to recent
rains making a crossing interesting. Rimmon Pit Clough provided a
pleasant scramble up the slabby gritstone bed of the stream. On
reaching the road, the welcome sign of a tea van provided the
incentive to negotiate the barbed wire fence. After hot drinks and
resisting the temptation of the black pudding butties on offer, we
rejoined the Pennine Way for a boggy section to Black Hill. Andy and
Jenny both sank in deeper than knee level, but Charles was all right -
he had come in wellies. From the trig point we hastened back to the car
park, an unintentional detour through the quarry above Crowden taking
up the last remnants of daylight. Sixteen enjoyable miles, with some
excellent bogtrotting.

Llanberis. 28-29 November. Report by Dave Pendlebury. A very well
attended meet, based in the Chester MC hut with overflow
accommodation taken elsewhere in Llanberis. Activities ranged
from rock climbing at Tremadoc to ice climbing on Snowdon. Most
people walked and scrambled on the higher peaks. The weekend was
notable for two events. First the meet leader was there and
second the hut key scaled no peaks!

Manifold Valley Cycle. 6 December. Report by John Barnard. Six of
us met up at the appointed place, where one hired a suitable
bone-shaker for the day, and we set off up the pleasant paved
track along the valley. This is a disused railway line, and those
who'd assumed that we wouldn't need lights were a bit unnerved by
the tunnel! After leaving the railway we turned south to reach
the George at Alstonefield for lunch, where the Smith family met
up with us. In the afternoon, we made an entertaining descent of
Dovedale, where the path is far from paved, and several stiles
provide an additional hazard. When we got to the stepping stones,
we provided great amusement to several onlookers, especially as
the stones on the far side were under water! Finally, it was back
over a hill to our starting point.

Point-to-point. 13 December. Report by Dave Pendlebury. A
miserable morning in Sheffield turned out to be quite pleasant in
the Peak District. Participants were provided with a list of
clues at various grid references in the Ladybower area (including
the top of Win Hill!). A seven mile walk/run included all the
clues, with the finish being at the Yorkshire Bridge Inn. Martin
and Dubbo were the winning team. There was a bonus for Martin and
Dave P who went on to climb a new route at Horseshoe Quarry 'Cold
Sweat'.

The Christmas Dinner Dance was held at the Devonshire Arms,
Baslow, on 18th December and proved a successful function as
usual. Many thanks to all those who generously donated prizes for
the raffle.

Hope Valley - seasonal stagger. 20 December. Report by John
Starey. About a dozen members turned up at Hathersage car park on
a dull overcast day. Luckily they didn't arrive at the car park
specified by the advertised grid reference, as that was private.
However this sorted we left at a reasonable pace towards Shatton
and Win Hill via Parkin Clough, except the meet leader and three
others who took an easier line to meet up with the others just
below the summit, along with the usual leg pulling banter and
shouts of cheat etc. The plan was then to go over Wooler Knoll
then down to Fullwood Stile and arrive at the Cheshire Cheese at
about 1.15-ish, but at the junction of paths after Win Hill it
was a unanimous decision to go straight to the Cheshire Cheese
thus arriving at 1230.
   After a few drinks and more leg pulling etc we left with the
idea of a steady stroll back to Hathersage, but Jack had other
ideas, ie Lose Hill, Castleton then back to the cars. This
completed and enjoyed by all it was round to Claire's for tea and
fruit cake which was much appreciated as it was now quite late.
