The Anniversary Dinner.

	The Club's 21st Anniversary Dinner was held at the Glenridding Hotel in Patterdale on November 19th. This was very well attended with just less than 100 people there, including many old members. Alec Barclay, the founder member of the Club, came from Scotland and Kate and Allan Fowler came all the way from Norway. This was probably one of the biggest Club events for years and I think everyone had a memorable weekend.

	The guest speaker was Walt Unsworth, former editor of Climber and Rambler. However, the main event of the evening was the launch of "The Book". This had been kept under wraps until the last moment and few people had any idea of what to expect.

	The book (title "The Castle") was very well received, most people being amazed by the quality of the production (but then I am biased, being one of the Editors). I think all the hard work that we have put in over the last year was fully justified by what is by any standards an excellent publication. I should like to thank all the contributors, without whom the book would not have been possible at all, my fellow editors who have frequently burnt the midnight oil (and consumed quantities of beer and whisky) and especially all our wives for putting up with us.

	After the dinner the evening continued with an auction of Dubbo's original cartoons used to illustrate the book. This raised a considerable sum of money, but the highlight of the auction was the appearance of Martin, Dubbo and Nesta attired as in their respective cartoons!

	Many people managed a full programme of walking and climbing over the weekend. After and indifferent start on Saturday, the weather improved at lunchtime to give an afternoon of perfect weather. Many people enjoyed good the weather on the tops, having set out in the gloom of the morning, with Striding Edge receiveing its fair share of ascents. Once the sun had come out it was warm enough to climb and several people went over to Castle Rock. It snowed on Saturday night but Sunday again developed into an excellent day for those who were able to overcome their hangovers and venture onto the fells.

	Now that we have produced the book, it is very important that we sell as many as possible to recoup the cost of publication. At present it is selling very well and as I write this we are planning a second edition, so everyone with copies of Chris Wright climbing upside down may have a valuable first edition in years to come. However, the committee feels that it is the job of everyone in the Club to help to sell it, so get out there and start selling!

	Copies of the photographs and illustrations are available for anyone who would like one to hang on their wall. Frames (with non reflective glass) may also be purchased, price negotiable with Mike Anderson.

	The book will be available through many local retail outlets and every copy sold will benefit the Club's finances. If anyone needs extra copies to sell contact Mike Anderson.