CASTLE MC Newsletter No.17; 1988.

The evening climbing meets have ended and winter is on its way.The
winter meets lists has been distributed and all membersshould have
received one; as usual extra copies are available inthe clubroom if
required. There is a good variety of meets:walking, climbing, caving,
and hopefully if conditions permit,ice climbing and skiing. Probably
the high point of the seasonwill be the anniversary meet and dinner in
Patterdale inNovember, when the book celebrating the club's 21st
birthday willbe unveiled. Details of many of the winter meets are
contained inthis newsletter. If weather or road conditions do not seem
topermit a meet to take place as advertised, please phone the
meetleader for alternative arrangements. Please note that theclubroom
will be closed on the Thursdays immediately before andafter Christmas,
22 and 29th December.

Forthcoming Meets:


Bleaklow bogtrot. 30 October. Coordinator Andy Smith
(phone664624). Meet 930am at the railway bridge below Rollick
Stones(GR SK 077990), for an ascent of Bleaklow via Wildboar
Clough.About 12 miles with no pub stop, so bring butties to eat in
thewind, rain, mist etc.

Beeston Tor. 6 November. Coordinator Dave Pendlebury
(phone662245). "Limestone climbing in the Manifold Valley with
goodroutes in the middle grades (VSE1). The crag (GR SK10754)
facessouth, is sheltered and a suntrap (if there is any!). Bring
yourwellies or Tyrolean traversing gear to cross the river.  Parkingis
possible virtually opposite the crag on the track to BeestonTor Farm
though you are likely to be charged for the privilege.Otherwise use
the free car park by Weag's Bridge. Meet at thecrag from 1030am.
Dave."

Clubroom cleanup. 8 November. 8pm. Please come along for a coupleof
hours and help put the clubroom in order for the AGM and partyon
Thursday 10th November. Thanks to John Starey and Gordon Rileyfor the
work they did in painting the outside of the clubroom.Dave Pendlebury.

Patterdale. 19-20 November. 21st ANNIVERSARY MEET.  CoordinatorMike
Anderson (phone 366372). The meet will feature the specialAnniversary
dinner on the Saturday night (19 November) at theGlenridding Hotel
(see below for details), and it is expectedthat many former and
present members of the club will attend.Accommodation is available at
the hotel (at a discount rate forthose attending the dinner), various
cottages, youth hostel, B&Bor camping. Sign up on the notice in the
clubroom for the dinnerand for cottage accommodation, or contact Mike.

Derwent walk. 27 November. Coordinator Dave Crowther
(phone660527). "Meet 930am at King's Tree (end of road up Ladybower
andDerwent Reservoirs GR 168938) for a tour of the Upper
Derwent.Gaiters or wellies suggested.  Dave."

Snowdonia. 3-4 December. Coordinator Rob Green (phone 364882).
8places have been booked in the Plas y Brenin bunkhouse. Sign upon the
club notice board.

Edale walk. 11 December. Coordinator Robert Howard (phone
338991). "Assemble at the public car park near Edale station
(GR125852) at 10am for an 8 mile walk towards Upper Booth and Jacob's
Ladder and thence along the skyline to Crowden Tower and Foxholes with
its fine views of Edale. A lower level variant is planned if the tops
are totally under cloud. Either way there should be just enough time
for all those who don't get permanently stuck in the peat to conclude
activities in the Nag's Head Inn. (For any without cars or lift
organised, a train leaves Sheffield at 910am to arrive Edale 940am).
Robert."

Seasonal stroll. 18 December. Coordinator John Starey
(phone686128). "Meet at Grindleford station car park at 9am.  Steady
walk of about 12 miles calling at a pub for lunch and a festive drink
or two; those who have had more than two can catch the train home!
John."

Grindleford Cafe Meet. 1 January. Coordinator Ian Barton (phoneHope
Valley 31711). "For all those who have survived the New Year
celebrations, there will be a meet starting at Grindleford cafe on New
Year's Day. A full breakfast and pint of tea is de rigeur.The exact
nature of the day's activities will depend on the extent of everyone's
hangovers. Bring your own Paracetemol. Ian."

Caving I. 8 January. Coordinator Martin Whitaker (phone
554954)."Venue: A hole in the ground. Which one, and whether in the
Peak or Yorkshire Dales, will depend on who wants to come on the
meet(ie the experience of the party), and what Steve France has in
mind for Caving II. Equipment: Caving can be a cold, dark, wet
experience, and if you expect it to be horrible, the chances are you
won't be disappointed, but there is just a possibility that you might
enjoy it. Useful (or essential) items of equipment are: headtorch and
Duracell battery (+ spare), helmet, wet suit or old woolly top and
trousers, boiler suit or old waterproofs,wellies or old boots, rubber
gloves with wool type gloves inside, sit harness (probably) and
screwgate krab, towel and change of clothes. See clubroom noticeboard
for further details.  Martin."

Limestone walk. 15 January. Coordinator John Starey
(phone686128). "Meet Tideswell Dale car park (GR 155742) at
830am. Walking about 12/16 miles in excellent limestone dales country,
calling in for a pub lunch if time permits.  John."

Patterdale 21-22 January. Coordinator Nesta Hartley (phone 665274 extn
3328). Traditional and popular meet based on the George Starkey
hut. The hut is now full, but overflow accommodation is available,
contact Nesta for details. If you have signed up for a place and not
yet paid, please do so immediately, or your place may be offered to
someone else. Sleeping on the hut floor or in vehicles outside the
hut, if you don't have one of the booked beds, is absolutely
FORBIDDEN, as it is liable to get the club banned from using the hut
in future.

Kinder walk/ski/climb. 29 January. Coordinator John Barnard (phone
306077). "Meet at the Snake Inn at 10am equipped with wellies,
climbing boots, skis, crampons or whatever appears suitable to the
prevailing conditions. This meet could involve anything from a wet and
muddy bogtrot to an ascent/descent of the Downfall on skis. Watch the
noticeboard for more details nearer the time, or phone me.  John."

Black Hill. 5 February. Coordinator Barry Brown (phone 756547).  Meet
Crowden Youth Hostel (GR 073994) 9am. Black Hill via Laddow.

Glencoe. 18-19 February. Coordinator Ian Barton (phone HopeValley
31711). "The SMC hut at Lagangarbh has been booked. There are only a
limited number of places so book early. However,please note if you put
your name down on the list you will have to pay for your place in the
hut even if you do not go.February is normally an excellent time for
good snow and ice conditions and the hut is well positioned for climbs
both in Glencoe and on The Ben. Anyone contemplating climbing with me
is advised to read my story about winter climbing on The Ben in the
21st Anniversary Book first and to bring good bivvy gear.  Ian."

Eastern Edges. 26 February. Coordinator Rob Green (phone 364882).
"Starts Flouch Inn (GR 197016). Finish at Robin Hood Inn
(GR279721). Classic Walks grades this walk 'a long walk over moorland
and gritstone edges, much of it above 1000ft'. Nearer the time I will
attempt to organise transport see notice boardfor details.  Rob."

Evening Moonlight walk. 21 March. Coordinator Andy Smith
(phone664624). Meet at the Nag's Head, Edale, 8pm for a tramp on
Kinder. Back before closing time. Note the different day of the week
(Tuesday) from usual, but there was no available Friday with a
suitable moon. For those who have to work next day, you won't be out
any longer than on a midsummer evening climbing meet.  Moonrise is at
1735 GMT, sunset at 1824 GMT.

Glen Clova. 24-27 March (Easter). Coordinator John Starey
(phone686128). The Carn Dearg MC hut (GR NO 286758 on OS 1:50000 sheet
44 or the 1" Cairngorm tourist sheet) has been booked for the nights
of 24-27 March inclusive. Located in a superb wild mountain
area. Especially good for skiing. Note that the date is just about as
early as Easter can be, and so we can reasonably hope for good winter
conditions.

Hen Cloud. 16 April. Coordinator Ian Barton (phone Hope
Valley31711). "A great gritstone crag to start off the season.  Try
Central Climb to sort yourself out for a first route! The climbing is
excellent but steep. Not a place for those weak in the arms or the
fainthearted.  Ian."


The following is not a club meet but may be of interest to keen winter
climbers. Ben Nevis. The CIC hut (GR 168721) has been booked for 5
nights: Sunday 5 March to Thursday 9 March 1989. The hut is the
perfect base for climbs on the superb northeast face of the Ben,
perhaps the premier British winter climbing area, as it lies high in
Coire Leis right beneath the cliffs and gullies of the face. Six
places available. Cost #2.50 per night. Sleeping bag useful but
propane gas, cooking utensils etc supplied. For further details or to
book a place, contact Rob Green (phone364882).

Easter 1991. The Muir of Inverey hut, near Braemar, has been
booked. So that this will not be forgotten in the intervening years,
this notice will appear in every newsletter.

Social meets:

Lecturette evening. 27 October 8pm at the Millstone Inn.  Details from
Steve France (phone 364669). The clubroom will be closed onthis
evening.

21st ANNIVERSARY DINNER. 19 November 8pm at the GlenriddingHotel.
Details are on the noticeboard. The guest speaker will beWalt
Unsworth, and the occasion will be used to launch theAnniversary
book. The cost of the dinner is #10. Th menu will be:Homemade pate and
Cumberland sauce, with wholemeal bread; Creamof vegetable soup; Roast
topside of beef with claret gravy; CoupeKeldas; Coffee. Those wishing
to attend the dinner MUST book inadvance, either by signing the notice
in the clubroom, ORnotifying Mike Anderson. If you would prefer a
vegetarian meal,please indicate this when you book and it will be
arranged.  Formore information contact Mike Anderson, 2 Twentywell
Rise,Bradway, Sheffield (phone Sheffield 366372).

Party. As usual this will follow the AGM at the clubroom on
10thNovember. Please bring along some party food.

Photo competition. Saturday, 14 January, at Club 197 (Sheffield
University Staff Club), beginning at 730pm. The date, which was
indicated in the meets list as being provisional, is now a firm
one. The judge will be Ian Smith. Admission will be #1. The club is at
197 Brook Hill, on the corner of Favell Road, about 200 yds downhill
from the Octagon Centre. We are in the upstairs room; the bar is on
the ground floor.  The rules are the same as usual. A maximum of 8
slides may be submitted; each slide may be entered for either the
Pictorial or Action section. In addition, there will be the
traditional "Club Interest" section; a maximum of 4 further slides may
be entered in this section. John Starey is the organiser, and slides
MUST be submitted to him by Thursday 5 January at the latest, each one
clearly labelled with the photographer's name, and the section under
which it is being entered. So now's the time to sort your slides out
let's see some good ones and a chance to embarrass your friends in the
club interest section.



Reports of recent meets:

September stroll. 11 September. We started from Castleton, elevenof
us, which wasn't bad for a walk starting at 9am on a Sundaymorning. At
first it was rather cloudy and windy but as the dayprogressed it
became very pleasantly warm and sunny. We startedup the defile of
Cavedale to emerge onto Hurdlow. A track took uspast a motorbike
scrambling meeting and skirted Eldon Hill quarrydown to the road. We
then had to do more than skirt the quarry,which has obviously been
enlarged since the map was drawn; thepath now goes through it, and we
scurried across, running thegauntlet of tipper trucks being driven at
full tilt. The routecontinued uneventfully across fields and over
stiles in the drystone boundary walls, some of which took rather
carefulmapreading to find. We passed Peak Forest to the
delightfulhamlet of Old Dam and then on to a place whose spelling
seemeduncertain Brecktor on the 1:25000 sheet, Brocktor on
theoneinch. The first mutiny of the day resulted in a stop
forelevenses. Then it was on past the flourspar workings ofTideswell
Moor to Windmill and Great Hucklow, the latter lookingvery pretty with
colourful flowers in its immaculately keptcottage gardens. The
Ashcroft Howgate consortium here divertedinto the Queen Anne, whilst
the rest of us pushed on through a few more fields to the official
lunch stop, the Lazy Landlord atFoolow, where we enjoyed a drink at
the tables outside in thesunshine and ignored the signs forbidding the
consumption ofone's own food. Here we were joined by two members who
had notgot up early enough for the start of the walk.  The
afternooninvolved crossing Bretton Clough, rejoining the splinter
group,and following the track across Abney Moor through the tall
summerbracken, whilst gliders and hanggliders soared overhead in
theclear blue sky. A descent to Brough and walk along the
riversidepath bought us back to Castleton, thronged with tourists. A
mostenjoyable day's walk, slightly longer than the advertised 15miles.

Eskdale. 24-25 September. Although in the best tradition the
meetleader did not make it to the campsite at Boot, more than a
dozenmembers did. Saturday was damp at first but beautiful later,
withthe becks in spate after heavy rain and excellent views throughthe
clear air, though the cloud hung around the highest tops allday. Most
people walked to Wasdale returning over Scafell, viaLords rake. A
family party did a shorter variation over BleatarnHill. The evening
was passed pleasantly in the Burnmoor Inn.Sunday dawned perfectly but
sadly it didn't last and by lunchtime the rain and mist had closed in
again. Most people headedfor the Coniston fells, though one optimistic
team luggedrockclimbing gear up to Napes Needle, only to be rained
off.

Wildcat. 9 October. "Me and him and Andy Dight had a great warmday
whilst you were all lying in bed. Where were you?  LindaMcLeish."

Cader Idris. 15-16 October. A dozen or so members attended thismeet
which turned out to be excellent. Saturday saw a mass ascentof Cyfrwy
Arete; everyone was there except Vanda and Steve whohad gone to the
wrong campsite and did their own thing. There wasa light haze down in
the valley but above, the sun shone out of aclear blue sky, and all
the way up the ridge we had wonderfulviews across the cwm to the
summit and northwards down to theMawddach valley. We were clearly on
the right side of themountain, as from time to time swirls of cloud
billowed over thesummit ridge and into the cwm. The route itself,
which we hadentirely to ourselves, is a 500ft diff in an excellent
situation,technically easy but with a certain amount of loose
rock;fortunately most of this was cleared away by Hugh during
theascent. The main feature of the ascent was the very strong
windwhich necessitated short pitches and a lot of shouting. It
wasnearly four o'clock by the time we reached the lunch stop at thetop
of the route and coiled the ropes. We returned to camp viathe summit
of Cader, being fortunate enough to see BrockenSpectres en
route. Later our hoarse throats were soothed bycopious draughts of
Marston's Pedigree in the Railway Inn atAbergynolwyn.  On Sunday
(except for Hugh and Andy who climbed at Bird Rock) weall made an
ascent of Rhobell Fawr, including the Ashcrofts whowere timesharing
with an Oread meet. The wind had dropped and itwas a perfect day,
really summery, ie the sort of warm sunny daywe ought to get in the
summer but usually don't, and it wassweaty work getting to the summit
trig point. Here we ate lunch,enjoying the excellent views in all
directions. All the majorranges of the area can be seen from this
little visited peak:Snowdonia to the north, the Rhinogs to the west,
Cader to thesouth, the Arans and Arenigs to the east. The keener
members ofthe team also took in the lower rocky little peak of
Robellybig, reached across rather boggy ground, before weregrouped for
our return route through the forest, the initialpart of which was
obviously little used and needed bushwackingtechniques to
penetrate. We dropped back down to the cars throughblackberry lined
lanes. A good day was rounded off nicely by acafe stop in Bala before
the journey home.



New members:

We welcome Vee Anderson, Julia Barton, Hugh Dowling, RobertHoward, and
Louise Walton to membership of the club.


Changes of address:

Jane Alexander has moved to 9 Longfield Road, Crookes,
Sheffield10. Telephone 663211. The number given on the meets list is
nowincorrect and should be amended.  Jane Blackford is at 7 Bute
Street, Crookes, Sheffield S10 1UP.Telephone 664814.  Barry Brown has
moved to 60 Club Garden Road, Sheffield S11 8BU.Telephone 756547.
Andy Dight has moved to 61 Walkley Road, Sheffield S6 2XL.Telephone
324549.  Dave and Rosie Dunk have now moved into their new home
nearKendal. The address is 25 Long Meadow Lane, Natland,
Kendal,Cumbria LA9 7QZ. Telephone Sedgewick (05395) 60167.  Linda
McLeish is now living at the same address as DavePendlebury, 54
Penrhyn Road, Sheffield S11 8UN. Her phone numberis 662245, and not as
given on the meets list.  Gavin Moore is now at the same address as
Paul Roe: 210 PsalterLane, Sheffield 11. Telephone 661060.  Sam
Saunders has moved to 19 Hallam Grange Rise, Sheffield
S104BE. Telephone 630510.  Pauline Shakesby got married this summer
and is now PaulineWilson. Her new address is 7 Silverdale Close,
Sheffield 11.  Matthew Thomas has moved to 8 Wiseton Road, Hunters
Bar.


Club equipment: The club has the following equipment for hire to
members at a nominal charge: Force 10 tent, Arctic Guinea tent, 4 ice
axes, 2 Campa mats, 3 climbing harnesses (2 Whillans + 1 sitharness),
1 climbing belt, 2 climbing helmets. Rules for hiring club equipment
and the hire charges are on notices on the clubroom
noticeboard. Enquiries to Nesta Hartley the equipment custodian or any
committee member.

Library: The committee has decided to update the club's stock ofmaps
and guidebooks. Guides for Llanberis, Tremadoc and areas ofthe Lakes
will be bought, together with 1:25000 maps for theLakes, Wales and the
Dales. Eric Langmuir's 'MountainLeadership', the syllabus for the
Mountain LeadershipCertificate, will also be purchased.  The following
are missing from the club library. Please sign themout or return them
if you have them. Books: Annapurna South Face(Bonington), Backpacking
in the Alps and Pyrenees (Styles), Bookof Rock Climbing (Unsworth),
Call Out (McInnes), Climbing lind(Richard), Conquistadors of the
Useless (Terray), Eiger Direct(Gillman and Haston), Hill Walking in
Snowdonia (Rowland), Learnto Ski (Beattie), Mont Blanc Massif
(Rebuffat), Nanga Parbat (Herrligkoffer), 2 copies of Portrait of a
Mountaineer(Whillans), Ramblers Cheviot (Hill), Rock Climbing in the
EnglishLake District (Jones), Where the High Winds Blow (Walker),
WorldGuide to Mountains and Mountaineering (Cleare), Out in theCountry
(Countryside Commission). Maps: Wensleydale (1" OS),Three Peaks (2.5"
OS). Guidebooks: Islands of Scotland SMCDistrict Guide, Winter Climbs
(Nevis and Glencoe), Cwm Idwal,Tryfan, Central Wales, Tryfan and
Glyder Fach, Iaf Fechan, RockClimbing in the Peak (Nunn), Lancashire
and the North West,Recent Developments (Bancroft).

The next committee meeting is on 19 January at 730pm.

The 1988 Annual General Meeting will be held in the clubroom on10
November at 8pm. A formal notice of meeting and agenda isbeing
distributed to members at the same time as this newsletter.

Clubroom rota. 3 Nov: Dave Pendlebury; 17 Nov: Dave Crowther; 24Nov:
John Starey; 1 Dec: Rob Green.

Congratulations to Ian and Julia Barton on their recent marriage.They
kept that quiet, didn't they?

Mrs Ferguson, the landlady at the Rising Sun, has recentlyretired. For
those who were not at the clubroom on 8th September,a presentation was
made to her by the president on behalf of theclub. The new mine hosts
are Paul and Betty Leach, who previouslymanaged the Embassy ballroom
at Intake.

Sheffield Association of Climbing Clubs news:


Forthcoming SACC events:

The SACC AGM will be on 7 November at 8pm in the clubroom.Forthcoming
events are a lecturette evening in January, and theQuiz Night in
February. Exact dates and details will be announcedlater.


British Mountaineering Council news:

BMC Peak Area. The last meeting of the Peak Area committee
wascancelled because of the postal strike. This should have been
theAGM and they are looking for a new set of officers, so if you
areinterested why not come along? I shall put a notice up in
theClubroom when I find out the new date of the meeting.  IanBarton.
The BMC is appealing for more younger climbers to volunteer tohelp
with the next generation of guidebooks. For all interestedthere will
be a guide book open meeting at the Manners Hotel,Bakewell on
Wednesday 2 November at 730pm.  Pembroke, Saddle Head. The Army are
threatening to stop allclimbing here following vandalism to their
property. It isessential that the MOD compound is not entered nor MOD
propertydamaged or tampered with in any way.  The BMC Technical
Committee reports a case of failure of a 9mmKermantel rope, probably
to to contamination with battery acid,and warns climbers to store and
transport ropes carefully. lsothe saddle pieces on Salewa Classic
crampons, including the redpainted replacements already distributed by
Karrimor, aresuspect. Satisfactory replacements should be available
before the inter climbing season.  The BMC are planning to organise a
film festival in Leeds nextApril.  The 1989 AGM is provisionally in
North Wales on 22 April.


Anniversary Teeshirts/Sweatshirts. The third order went in onOctober
14th, and should be ready for collection on the 27th.Please pay John
Barnard as soon as possible (the money is neededto finance the
printing of the book!). John also has a couple ofspare items for
resale (wrong size for the people who orderedthem etc): 1 medium
sweatshirt (black); 1 extra large teeshirt(pink).

Ramblers' Association Slide lecture series 1988-89.  Alternate
Wednesdays at 730pm at The Victoria Hall (George St
entrance). Admission 70p. 26 Sep: Sri Lanka a summer visit (Dr G
Ulmanis); 9 Nov: Eastern and Central USA (J Edward Vickers); 23 Nov:
National Parks of England and Wales (E June Robinson); 7 Dec: Walking
in the Alps (Vincent Boulter); 4 Jan: From the Valais to the Ortler
(Jack Ashcroft); 18 Jan: In high places India and Iceland (Bob
Lancaster and Max Holliday); 1 Feb: Tour of Mont Blanc/ Via Ferrata in
the Brenta (Frank Mellor); 15 Feb: A Scandinavian miscellany (Jim
Frost); 1 Mar: Children in the countryside (R C Hyde); 15 Mar: Moscow
and Florida (M Burgin).

Chris Bonington lecture: "Menlungtse 1988 and the search for
theYeti". Octagon Centre, 1 November. Tickets #3.75 from
WendyRichardson, 38 Steade Road, Sheffield S7 1DS, phone 556080.

Doug Scott, Himalaya '88 lecture (including Makalu West Face andJitchu
Drake). 8 December 730pm, The Winding Wheel, HollywellStreet,
Chesterfield. Tickets #3 from Wilderness Ways,Chesterfield.

"HARD ROCK, HIGH MOUNTAINS". The Sheffield Climbing Lectures.745pm at
the Sheffield Library Theatre. 18 Oct: Joe Simpson,"Touching the
Void"; 15 Nov: Paul Nunn, "At the sharp end"; 16Dec: Jim Curran, "K2:
Triumph and Tragedy" and "Kongur".  Tickets#2.50 (#3 for Curran) from
Phil Swainson, 8 Grange Road, S11 8FW,Sheffield 588771.

Anyone interested in joining a party to walk the old right of
wayacross Morecambe Bay sands, contact Charles Knowles or myself.

Ogwen Valley Mountain Rescue Organisation are appealing for fundsto
renovate their base, Bryn Poeth. Please send any donations,cheques
payable to "Ogwen Valley Mountain Rescue Organisation",to
W.J. Fedrick, Rocklands, Penmaenmawr, LL34 6AP.

A mail order catalogue has been received from Mountain Mail, whoare
based in Telford.

Unused Kamet rock boots (size 38) for sale #22. Contact Geoff orJulie
Nichols on Sheffield 681179.

Finally a personal farewell note. This is the last newsletter Iwill be
sending out, as I am stepping down as secretary at theAGM on 10th
November and retiring from the committee after a ten year stint
definitely time to let someone else have a turn.  Ishould like to
thank all those who have helped me in variousways, especially Rosy for
dealing with phone calls about club matters, putting newsletters into
envelopes, and many otherthings. Much has happened in the last few
years but I believethat the club is as thriving as ever as it
approaches its 21stbirthday; the faces change but we still have a
group ofenthusiasts united in their love of the mountains. Long may
itcontinue. Subject to ratification by the AGM, my successor
assecretary will be John Barnard and I wish him well. Ian Bartonhas
undertaken to edit the newsletter. It is likely that I willbe moving
away from Sheffield to the Cambridge area next summer,so I will not be
around on local meets or at the clubroom, butstill plan to keep in
contact with the club and get to some ofthe away meets. As ever, best
wishes, and good mountaineering.

Andy Smith (Hon Sec), 1 Cliffe Farm Drive, Sheffield S11
7JW. Telephone Sheffield664624.
